# Test data for Person Name Data#  Copyright © 1991-2024 Unicode, Inc.
#  For terms of use, see http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html
#  SPDX-License-Identifier: Unicode-3.0
#  CLDR data files are interpreted according to the LDML specification (http://unicode.org/reports/tr35/)
# CLDR person name formatting test data for: am
#
# Test lines have the following structure:
#
# enum ; <type> ; <value>(', ' <value)
#   For all the elements in <…> below, the possible choices that could appear in the file.
#   For example, <field> could be any of title, given, … credentials.
#   Verify that all of these values work with the implementation.
#
# name ; <field>('-'<modifier>) ; <value>
#   A sequence of these is to be used to build a person name object with the given field values.
#   If the <field> is 'locale', then the value is the locale of the name.
#     That will always be the last field in the name.
#     NOTE: the locale for the name (where different than the test file's locale) will generally not match the text.
#     It is chosen to exercise the person name formatting, by having a different given-surname order than the file's locale.
#
# expectedResult; <value>
#   This line follows a sequence of name lines, and indicates the that all the following parameter lines have this expected value.
#
# parameters; <options>; <length>; <usage>; <formality>
#   Each of these parameter lines should be tested to see that when formatting the current name with these parameters, 
#   the expected value is produced.
#
# endName
#   Indicates the end of the values to be tested with the current name.
#
# =====
# Example:
#     enum ; field ; title, given, given2, surname, surname2, generation, credentials
#     …
#
#     name ; given; Iris
#     name ; surname; Falke
#     name ; locale; de
#
#     expectedResult; Falke, Iris
#
#     parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
#     parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
#
#     endName
#
#     name ; given; Max
#     name ; given2; Ben
#     name ; surname; Mustermann
#     …
# =====

enum ; field ; title, given, given2, surname, surname2, generation, credentials
enum ; modifiers ; informal, allCaps, initialCap, initial, retain, monogram, prefix, core, vocative, genitive
enum ; order ; givenFirst, surnameFirst, sorting
enum ; length ; long, medium, short
enum ; usage ; referring, addressing, monogram
enum ; formality ; formal, informal

# nativeG
name ; given; ዜንዳያ
name ; locale; am_AQ

expectedResult; ዜንዳያ

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; ዜ

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# nativeGS
name ; given; ኢሬን
name ; surname; አድለር
name ; locale; am_AQ

expectedResult; አድለር ኢሬን

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; ኢሬን አድለር

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; አኢ

parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; ኢአ

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# nativeGGS
name ; given; ጆን
name ; given2; ሃሚሽ
name ; surname; ዋትሰን
name ; locale; am_AQ

expectedResult; ዋትሰን ጆን ሃሚሽ

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; ጆን ሃሚሽ ዋትሰን

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; ዋጆሃ

parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; ጆሃዋ

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# nativeFull
name ; title; አቶ
name ; given; በርታም ዊልበርፎርስ
name ; given-informal; በርቲ
name ; given2; ሄነሪ ሮበርት
name ; surname-core; ዉስተር
name ; generation; ተማሪ
name ; credentials; ኤምፒ
name ; locale; am_AQ

expectedResult; አቶ በርታም ዊልበርፎርስ ሄነሪ ሮበርት ዉስተር ኤምፒ

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; ዉስተር አቶ በርታም ዊልበርፎርስ ሄነሪ ሮበርት ኤምፒ

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; በሄዉ

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; ዉበሄ

parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# foreignG
name ; given; ሲንባድ
name ; locale; ko_AQ

expectedResult; ሲንባድ

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; ሲ

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# foreignGS
name ; given; ካቲ
name ; surname; ሙለር
name ; locale; ko_AQ

expectedResult; ሙለር ካቲ

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; ካቲ ሙለር

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; ሙካ

parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; ካሙ

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# foreignGGS
name ; given; ዛዚላ
name ; given2; ሃሚሽ
name ; surname; ስቶበር
name ; locale; ko_AQ

expectedResult; ስቶበር ዛዚላ ሃሚሽ

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; ዛዚላ ሃሚሽ ስቶበር

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; ስዛሃ

parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; ዛሃስ

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# foreignFull
name ; title; ፕ/ር ዶ/ር
name ; given; አዳ ኮርኔሊያ
name ; given-informal; ኒል
name ; given2; ኢቫ ሶፊያ
name ; surname-prefix; ቫን ደን
name ; surname-core; ብሩህል
name ; surname2; ጎንዛሌዝ ዶሚንጎ
name ; generation; ተማሪ
name ; credentials; ሚ/ዶ ዶ/ር
name ; locale; ko_AQ

expectedResult; ቫን ደን ብሩህል ጎንዛሌዝ ዶሚንጎ, ፕ/ር ዶ/ር አዳ ኮርኔሊያ ኢቫ ሶፊያ ሚ/ዶ ዶ/ር

parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; ቫን ደን ብሩህል ጎንዛሌዝ ዶሚንጎ ፕ/ር ዶ/ር አዳ ኮርኔሊያ ኢቫ ሶፊያ ሚ/ዶ ዶ/ር

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; ፕ/ር ዶ/ር አዳ ኮርኔሊያ ኢቫ ሶፊያ ቫን ደን ብሩህል ጎንዛሌዝ ዶሚንጎ ሚ/ዶ ዶ/ር

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; ቫአኢ

parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; አኢቫ

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName
