# Test data for Person Name Data#  Copyright © 1991-2024 Unicode, Inc.
#  For terms of use, see http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html
#  SPDX-License-Identifier: Unicode-3.0
#  CLDR data files are interpreted according to the LDML specification (http://unicode.org/reports/tr35/)
# CLDR person name formatting test data for: ko
#
# Test lines have the following structure:
#
# enum ; <type> ; <value>(', ' <value)
#   For all the elements in <…> below, the possible choices that could appear in the file.
#   For example, <field> could be any of title, given, … credentials.
#   Verify that all of these values work with the implementation.
#
# name ; <field>('-'<modifier>) ; <value>
#   A sequence of these is to be used to build a person name object with the given field values.
#   If the <field> is 'locale', then the value is the locale of the name.
#     That will always be the last field in the name.
#     NOTE: the locale for the name (where different than the test file's locale) will generally not match the text.
#     It is chosen to exercise the person name formatting, by having a different given-surname order than the file's locale.
#
# expectedResult; <value>
#   This line follows a sequence of name lines, and indicates the that all the following parameter lines have this expected value.
#
# parameters; <options>; <length>; <usage>; <formality>
#   Each of these parameter lines should be tested to see that when formatting the current name with these parameters, 
#   the expected value is produced.
#
# endName
#   Indicates the end of the values to be tested with the current name.
#
# =====
# Example:
#     enum ; field ; title, given, given2, surname, surname2, generation, credentials
#     …
#
#     name ; given; Iris
#     name ; surname; Falke
#     name ; locale; de
#
#     expectedResult; Falke, Iris
#
#     parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
#     parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
#
#     endName
#
#     name ; given; Max
#     name ; given2; Ben
#     name ; surname; Mustermann
#     …
# =====

enum ; field ; title, given, given2, surname, surname2, generation, credentials
enum ; modifiers ; informal, allCaps, initialCap, initial, retain, monogram, prefix, core, vocative, genitive
enum ; order ; givenFirst, surnameFirst, sorting
enum ; length ; long, medium, short
enum ; usage ; referring, addressing, monogram
enum ; formality ; formal, informal

# nativeG
name ; given; 유미
name ; locale; ko_AQ

expectedResult; 유미

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 유

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# nativeGS
name ; given; 유미
name ; surname; 강
name ; locale; ko_AQ

expectedResult; 강유미

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 유미강

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 유미

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; 강

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; 유

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# nativeGGS
name ; given; 소현
name ; surname; 박
name ; locale; ko_AQ

expectedResult; 박소현

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 소현박

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 소현

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; 박

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; 소

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# nativeFull
name ; title; 님
name ; given; 민규
name ; given-informal; 민규
name ; given2; 헨리
name ; surname-core; 김
name ; locale; ko_AQ

expectedResult; 김민규헨리

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal

expectedResult; 민규헨리김

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal

expectedResult; 김민규

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 민규김

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 김님

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal

expectedResult; 민규

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; 김

parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; 민

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# foreignG
name ; given; 신밧드
name ; locale; fr_AQ

expectedResult; 신밧드

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 신

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# foreignGS
name ; given; 케테
name ; surname; 뮐러
name ; locale; fr_AQ

expectedResult; 뮐러 케테

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 케테 뮐러

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 뮐러

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal

expectedResult; 케테

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; 뮐

parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; 케

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# foreignGGS
name ; given; 제질리아
name ; given2; 해미쉬
name ; surname; 슈퇴버
name ; locale; fr_AQ

expectedResult; 슈퇴버 제질리아 해미쉬

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal

expectedResult; 제질리아 해미쉬 슈퇴버

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal

expectedResult; 슈퇴버 제질리아

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 제질리아 슈퇴버

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 제질리아

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; 슈퇴버

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal

expectedResult; 슈

parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; 제

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName

# foreignFull
name ; title; 교수
name ; given; 에이다 코넬리아
name ; given-informal; 닐
name ; given2; 세사르 마르틴
name ; surname-prefix; 폰
name ; surname-core; 볼프
name ; surname2; 베커 슈미트
name ; generation; 주니어
name ; credentials; 박사
name ; locale; fr_AQ

expectedResult; 에이다 코넬리아 세사르 마르틴 폰 볼프 박사

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; formal

expectedResult; 폰 볼프 에이다 코넬리아 세사르 마르틴 박사

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; formal

expectedResult; 볼프 에이다 코넬리아 세사르 마르틴 폰

parameters; sorting; medium; referring; formal

expectedResult; 폰 볼프 에이다 코넬리아 세사르 마르틴

parameters; sorting; long; referring; formal

expectedResult; 에이다 코넬리아 폰 볼프 박사

parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; formal

expectedResult; 폰 볼프 에이다 코넬리아 박사

parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; formal

expectedResult; 에이다 코넬리아 폰 볼프

parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; formal

expectedResult; 폰 볼프 에이다 코넬리아

parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; formal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; formal

expectedResult; 폰 볼프 교수

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; formal

expectedResult; 닐 폰 볼프

parameters; givenFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 폰 볼프 닐

parameters; surnameFirst; long; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; referring; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; long; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; medium; referring; informal
parameters; sorting; short; referring; informal

expectedResult; 닐

parameters; givenFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; addressing; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; addressing; informal

expectedResult; 에

parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; givenFirst; short; monogram; informal

expectedResult; 폰

parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; long; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; medium; monogram; informal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; formal
parameters; surnameFirst; short; monogram; informal

endName
