Documentation/Books/Manual/Indexing/Ttl.md, before:

TTL Indexes
===========

Introduction to TTL (time-to-live) Indexes
------------------------------------------

The TTL index provided by ArangoDB is used for removing expired documents
from a collection. 

The TTL index is set up by setting an `expireAfter` value and by selecting a single 
document attribute which contains a reference timepoint. For each document, that
reference timepoint can then be specified as a numeric timestamp (Unix timestamp) or 
a date string in format `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS` with optional milliseconds. 
All date strings will be interpreted as UTC dates.

Documents will count as expired when wall clock time is beyond the per-document 
reference timepoint value plus the index' `expireAfter` value added to it. 

### Removing documents at a fixed period after creation / update

One use case supported by TTL indexes is to remove documents at a fixed duration
after they have been created or last updated. This requires setting up the index
with an attribute that contains the documents' creation or last-updated time.

Let's assume the index attribute is set to "creationDate", and the `expireAfter`
attribute of the index was set to 600 seconds (10 minutes).

    db.collection.ensureIndex({ type: "ttl", fields: ["creationDate"], expireAfter: 600 });

Let's further assume the following document now gets inserted into the collection:

    { "creationDate" : 1550165973 }

This document will be indexed with a reference timepoint value of `1550165973`,
which translates to the human-readable date/time `2019-02-14T17:39:33.000Z`. The document
will expire 600 seconds afterwards, which is at timestamp `1550166573` (or
`2019-02-14T17:49:33.000Z` in the human-readable version). From that point on, the
document is a candidate for being removed.

Please note that the numeric date time values for the index attribute should be 
specified in seconds since January 1st 1970 (Unix timestamp). To calculate the current 
timestamp from JavaScript in this format, there is `Date.now() / 1000`, to calculate it 
from an arbitrary `Date` instance, there is `Date.getTime() / 1000`.

Alternatively, the reference timepoints can be specified as a date string in format
`YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS` with optional milliseconds. All date strings will be interpreted 
as UTC dates.
  
The above example document using a datestring attribute value would be

    { "creationDate" : "2019-02-14T17:39:33.000Z" }

Now any data-modification access to the document could update the value in the document's
`creationDate` attribute to the current date/time, which would prolong the existence
of the document and keep it from being expired and removed. 

Setting a document's reference timepoint on initial insertion or updating it on every
subsequent modification of the document will not be performed by ArangoDB. Instead, it
is the tasks of client applications to set and update the reference timepoints whenever
the use case requires it.

### Removing documents at certain points in time

Another use case is to specify a per-document expiration/removal timepoint, and setting
the `expireAfter` attribute to a low value (e.g. 0 seconds).

Let's assume the index attribute is set to "expireDate", and the `expireAfter`
attribute of the index was set to 0 seconds (immediately when wall clock time reaches
the value specified in `expireDate`).

    db.collection.ensureIndex({ type: "ttl", fields: ["expireDate"], expireAfter: 0 });

When storing the following document in the collection, it will expire at the timepoint
specified in the document itself:

    { "expireDate" : "2019-03-28T01:06:00Z" }
 
As `expireAfter` was set to 0, the document will count as expired when wall clock time 
has reached the timeout.

It should be intuitive to see that the `expireDate` can be differently per document.
This allows mixing of documents with different expiration periods by calculating their
expiration dates differently in the client application.

### Preventing documents from being removed

In case the index attribute does not contain a numeric value nor a proper date string,
the document will not be stored in the TTL index and thus will not become a candidate 
for expiration and removal. Providing either a non-numeric value or even no value for 
the index attribute is a supported way to keep documents from being expired and removed.

### Limitations

The actual removal of expired documents will not necessarily happen immediately when 
they have reached their expiration time. 
Expired documents will eventually be removed by a background thread that is periodically
going through all TTL indexes and removing the expired documents.

There is no guarantee when exactly the removal of expired documents will be carried
out, so queries may still find and return documents that have already expired. These
will eventually be removed when the background thread kicks in and has spare capacity to
remove the expired documents. It is guaranteed however that only documents which are 
past their expiration time will actually be removed.
  
The frequency for invoking the background removal thread can be configured using 
the `--ttl.frequency` startup option. The frequency is specified in milliseconds.

In order to avoid "random" load spikes by the background thread suddenly kicking 
in and removing a lot of documents at once, the number of to-be-removed documents
per thread invocation can be capped.
The total maximum number of documents to be removed per thread invocation is
controlled by the startup option `--ttl.max-total-removes`. The maximum number of
documents in a single collection at once can be controlled by the startup option
`--ttl.max-collection-removes`.

There can at most be one TTL index per collection. It is not recommended to rely on
TTL indexes for user-land AQL queries. This is because TTL indexes may store a transformed,
always numerical version of the index attribute value even if it was originally passed
in as a datestring.

Please note that there is one background thread per ArangoDB database server instance 
for performing the removal of expired documents of all collections in all databases. 
If the number of databases and collections with TTL indexes is high and there are many 
documents to remove from these, the background thread may at least temporarily lag
behind with its removal operations. It should eventually catch up in case the number
of to-be-removed documents per invocation is not higher than the background thread's
configured threshold values.


Accessing TTL Indexes from the Shell
-------------------------------------

Ensures that a TTL index exists:
`collection.ensureIndex({ type: "ttl", fields: [ "field" ], expireAfter: 600 })`

Creates a TTL index on all documents using *field* as attribute path. Exactly 
one attribute path has to be given. The index will be sparse in all cases.

In case that the index was successfully created, an object with the index
details, including the index-identifier, is returned.

    @startDocuBlockInline ensureTtlIndex
    @EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_OUTPUT{ensureTtlIndex}
    ~db._create("test");
    db.test.ensureIndex({ type: "ttl", fields: [ "creationDate" ], expireAfter: 600 });
    for (let i = 0; i < 100; ++i) { db.test.insert({ creationDate: Date.now() / 1000 }); }
    ~db._drop("test");
    @END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_OUTPUT
    @endDocuBlock ensureTtlIndex

Commit message:

do not use the TTL index for queries which it does not support (#8766)

Documentation/Books/Manual/Indexing/Ttl.md, after:

TTL Indexes
===========

Introduction to TTL (time-to-live) Indexes
------------------------------------------

The TTL index provided by ArangoDB is used for removing expired documents
from a collection. 

The TTL index is set up by setting an `expireAfter` value and by selecting a single 
document attribute which contains a reference timepoint. For each document, that
reference timepoint can then be specified as a numeric timestamp (Unix timestamp) or 
a date string in format `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS` with optional milliseconds. 
All date strings will be interpreted as UTC dates.

Documents will count as expired when wall clock time is beyond the per-document 
reference timepoint value plus the index' `expireAfter` value added to it. 

### Removing documents at a fixed period after creation / update

One use case supported by TTL indexes is to remove documents at a fixed duration
after they have been created or last updated. This requires setting up the index
with an attribute that contains the documents' creation or last-updated time.

Let's assume the index attribute is set to "creationDate", and the `expireAfter`
attribute of the index was set to 600 seconds (10 minutes).

    db.collection.ensureIndex({ type: "ttl", fields: ["creationDate"], expireAfter: 600 });

Let's further assume the following document now gets inserted into the collection:

    { "creationDate" : 1550165973 }

This document will be indexed with a reference timepoint value of `1550165973`,
which translates to the human-readable date/time `2019-02-14T17:39:33.000Z`. The document
will expire 600 seconds afterwards, which is at timestamp `1550166573` (or
`2019-02-14T17:49:33.000Z` in the human-readable version). From that point on, the
document is a candidate for being removed.

Please note that the numeric date time values for the index attribute should be 
specified in seconds since January 1st 1970 (Unix timestamp). To calculate the current 
timestamp from JavaScript in this format, there is `Date.now() / 1000`, to calculate it 
from an arbitrary `Date` instance, there is `Date.getTime() / 1000`.

Alternatively, the reference timepoints can be specified as a date string in format
`YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS` with optional milliseconds. All date strings will be interpreted 
as UTC dates.
  
The above example document using a datestring attribute value would be

    { "creationDate" : "2019-02-14T17:39:33.000Z" }

Now any data-modification access to the document could update the value in the document's
`creationDate` attribute to the current date/time, which would prolong the existence
of the document and keep it from being expired and removed. 

Setting a document's reference timepoint on initial insertion or updating it on every
subsequent modification of the document will not be performed by ArangoDB. Instead, it
is the tasks of client applications to set and update the reference timepoints whenever
the use case requires it.

### Removing documents at certain points in time

Another use case is to specify a per-document expiration/removal timepoint, and setting
the `expireAfter` attribute to a low value (e.g. 0 seconds).

Let's assume the index attribute is set to "expireDate", and the `expireAfter`
attribute of the index was set to 0 seconds (immediately when wall clock time reaches
the value specified in `expireDate`).

    db.collection.ensureIndex({ type: "ttl", fields: ["expireDate"], expireAfter: 0 });

When storing the following document in the collection, it will expire at the timepoint
specified in the document itself:

    { "expireDate" : "2019-03-28T01:06:00Z" }
 
As `expireAfter` was set to 0, the document will count as expired when wall clock time 
has reached the timeout.

It should be intuitive to see that the `expireDate` can be differently per document.
This allows mixing of documents with different expiration periods by calculating their
expiration dates differently in the client application.

### Preventing documents from being removed

In case the index attribute does not contain a numeric value nor a proper date string,
the document will not be stored in the TTL index and thus will not become a candidate 
for expiration and removal. Providing either a non-numeric value or even no value for 
the index attribute is a supported way to keep documents from being expired and removed.

### Limitations

The actual removal of expired documents will not necessarily happen immediately when 
they have reached their expiration time. 
Expired documents will eventually be removed by a background thread that is periodically
going through all TTL indexes and removing the expired documents.

There is no guarantee when exactly the removal of expired documents will be carried
out, so queries may still find and return documents that have already expired. These
will eventually be removed when the background thread kicks in and has spare capacity to
remove the expired documents. It is guaranteed however that only documents which are 
past their expiration time will actually be removed.
  
The frequency for invoking the background removal thread can be configured using 
the `--ttl.frequency` startup option. The frequency is specified in milliseconds.

In order to avoid "random" load spikes by the background thread suddenly kicking 
in and removing a lot of documents at once, the number of to-be-removed documents
per thread invocation can be capped.
The total maximum number of documents to be removed per thread invocation is
controlled by the startup option `--ttl.max-total-removes`. The maximum number of
documents in a single collection at once can be controlled by the startup option
`--ttl.max-collection-removes`.

There can at most be one TTL index per collection. It is not recommended to rely on
TTL indexes for user-land AQL queries. This is because TTL indexes may store a transformed,
always numerical version of the index attribute value even if it was originally passed
in as a datestring.

Please note that there is one background thread per ArangoDB database server instance 
for performing the removal of expired documents of all collections in all databases. 
If the number of databases and collections with TTL indexes is high and there are many 
documents to remove from these, the background thread may at least temporarily lag
behind with its removal operations. It should eventually catch up in case the number
of to-be-removed documents per invocation is not higher than the background thread's
configured threshold values.
  
Please also note that TTL indexes are designed exactly for the purpose of removing 
expired documents from collections. It is *not recommended* to rely on TTL indexes 
for user-land AQL queries. This is because TTL indexes internally may store a transformed, 
always numerical version of the index attribute value even if it was originally passed in 
as a datestring. As a result TTL indexes will likely not be used for filtering and sort 
operations in user-land AQL queries.


Accessing TTL Indexes from the Shell
-------------------------------------

Ensures that a TTL index exists:
`collection.ensureIndex({ type: "ttl", fields: [ "field" ], expireAfter: 600 })`

Creates a TTL index on all documents using *field* as attribute path. Exactly 
one attribute path has to be given. The index will be sparse in all cases.

In case that the index was successfully created, an object with the index
details, including the index-identifier, is returned.

    @startDocuBlockInline ensureTtlIndex
    @EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_OUTPUT{ensureTtlIndex}
    ~db._create("test");
    db.test.ensureIndex({ type: "ttl", fields: [ "creationDate" ], expireAfter: 600 });
    for (let i = 0; i < 100; ++i) { db.test.insert({ creationDate: Date.now() / 1000 }); }
    ~db._drop("test");
    @END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_OUTPUT
    @endDocuBlock ensureTtlIndex
