.TH arangodump 1 "23 Feb 2016" "3.0.0-devel" "ArangoDB"
.SH NAME
arangodump - a tool to create logical dumps of an ArangoDB database
.SH SYNOPSIS
arangodump [options] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The arangodump binary can be used to create logical dumps of collection
meta information and collection data (documents) of an ArangoDB database.
By default, all non-system collections of the specified ArangoDB database
will be dumped with structural information and data. 

For each collection, a file named "<collection>.structure.json" will be
created with information about the collection. When data is also dumped,
an additional file "<collection>.data.json" will also be created.
All dump files will be placed in a directory, which will be created by
arangodump when run. If the directory already exists, arangodump will refuse to
work unless started with the option "--overwrite true".

arangodump will work on the specified database only. If no database name
is specified, arangodump will work on the default database ("_system").

The dumped files can be re-stored in an ArangoDB database using the
arangorestore tool.
.SH OPTIONS
For a complete list of options, please refer to the ArangoDB
online manual, available at http://www.arangodb.org/

The most important startup options are:

OPTION "--configuration <string>"
read configuration from file <string> ENDOPTION
OPTION "--collection <string>"
name of collection to dump (can be specified multiple times). This can be
used to restrict the dump to certain collections only. If not specified,
all collections will be dumped ENDOPTION
OPTION "--dump-data <bool>"
when set to "true" will dump the data (documents) of the collection ENDOPTION
OPTION "--include-system-collections <bool>"
when set to "true" will also dump system collections, otherwise they will be excluded ENDOPTION
OPTION "--output-directory <string>"
directory in which all dump files will be created. If the directory already exists,
arangodump will refuse to work unless started with option "--overwrite true" ENDOPTION
OPTION "--overwrite <bool>"
when set to "true", will overwrite any files in an existing output directory ENDOPTION
OPTION "--progress <bool>"
when set to "true", will display progress information ENDOPTION
OPTION "--server.endpoint <string>"
server endpoint to connect to, consisting of protocol, ip address and port ENDOPTION
OPTION "--server.database <string>"
database name to use when connection (default: "_system") ENDOPTION
OPTION "--server.username <string>"
username to use when connecting (default "root") ENDOPTION
OPTION "--server.password <string>"
password to use when connecting. Don't specify this option to get a password prompt ENDOPTION
OPTION "--server.disable-authentication <boolean>"
disable the password prompt and authentication when connecting to the server ENDOPTION
EXAMPLES
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright ArangoDB GmbH, Cologne, Germany
