.TH arangorestore 1 "Fr 6. Sep 02:19:07 CEST 2013" "" "ArangoDB"
.SH NAME
arangorestore - a data restore tool for the ArangoDB database
.SH SYNOPSIS
arangorestore [options] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The arangorestore binary can be used to restore data from logical dumps created
with the arangodump tool.
ArangoDB database. Input data be present in the input file in either CSV
format with column headlines, or in JSON format. If JSON format is used,
each line in the input file must contain exactly one JSON document with 
the attribute name/value pairs to import.
.SH OPTIONS
For a complete list of options, please refer to the ArangoDB
online manual, available at http://www.arangodb.org/

The most important startup options are:

.IP "--configuration <string>"
read configuration from file <string> 
.IP "--collection <string>"
name of collection to restore (can be specified multiple times). This can be
used to restrict the restore operation to certain collections only. If not 
specified, all collections from the "--input-directory" will be restored 
.IP "--create-collection <bool>"
set to "true" if collections should be created 
.IP "--import-data <bool>"
when set to "true" will restore the data (documents) of the collection 
.IP "--include-system-collections <bool>"
when set to "true" will also restore system collections, otherwise they will be 
excluded 
.IP "--input-directory <string>"
input directory in which to look for dump files. 
.IP "--overwrite <bool>"
when set to "true", will drop an existing collection before re-creating it 
.IP "--progress <bool>"
when set to "true", will display progress information 
.IP "--server.endpoint <string>"
server endpoint to connect to, consisting of protocol, ip address and port 
.IP "--server.database <string>"
database name to use when connection (default: "_system") 
.IP "--server.username <string>"
username to use when connecting (default "root") 
.IP "--server.password <string>"
password to use when connecting. Leave empty for a password prompt 
.SH EXAMPLES

.SH AUTHOR
	    Copyright triAGENS GmbH, Cologne, Germany
