.TH arangob 1 "So 30. Sep 01:36:14 CEST 2012" "" "ArangoDB"
.SH NAME
arangob - the ArangoDB benchmark and test tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
arangob [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The arangob binary can be used to issue test requests to the 
ArangoDB database. It can be used for benchmarks or server function
testing. It supports parallel querying and batch requests.
arangob currently only supports a few common test cases out of the box.
More test cases might be added later.
.SH OPTIONS
For a complete list of options, please refer to the ArangoDB
online manual, available at http://www.arangodb.org/

The most important startup options are:

.IP "--configuration <string>"
read configuration from file <string> 
.IP "--batch-size <int32>"
number of operations to send per batch (use 0 to disable batching)
.IP "--collection <string>"
name of collection to use in test (only relevant for tests that invoke collections)
.IP "--concurrency <int32>"
number of parallel threads that will issue requests (default is 1 thread)
.IP "--requests <int32>"
total number of requests to perform
.IP "--test-case <string>"
name of test case to perform (possible values: "version" and "document")
.IP "--complexity <int32>"
complexity value for test case (meaning depends on test case)
.IP "--server.endpoint <string>"
server endpoint to connect to, consisting of protocol, ip address and port 
.IP "--server.database <string>"
database name to use when connection (default: "_system")
.IP "--server.username <string>"
username to use when connecting (default "root") 
.IP "--server.password <string>"
password to use when connecting. Leave empty for a password prompt 
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
shell> arangob 
starts arangob with the default user and server endpoint 
.EE

.EX
shell> arangob --server.username fuchsia 
starts arangob with a specific user. Password prompt will follow 
.EE

.EX
shell> arangob --server.username fuchsia --server.password "abcd@34"
starts arangob with a specific user and password given on command line 
.EE

.EX
shell> arangob --server.endpoint tcp://192.168.173.13:8529
starts arangob connecting to a specific server 
.EE

.EX
shell> arangob --server.endpoint ssl://192.168.173.13:8530
starts arangob connecting to a specific server using an SSL connection 
.EE


.SH AUTHOR
	    Copyright triAGENS GmbH, Cologne, Germany
