Documentation/DocuBlocks/Rest/Documents/patch_update_multiple_documents.md, before:


@startDocuBlock patch_update_document_MULTI
@brief updates multiple documents

@RESTHEADER{PATCH /_api/document/{collection},Update documents,updateDocuments}

@RESTALLBODYPARAM{documents,json,required}
A JSON representation of an array of document updates as objects.

@RESTURLPARAMETERS

@RESTURLPARAM{collection,string,required}
Name of the *collection* in which the documents are to be updated.

@RESTQUERYPARAMETERS

@RESTQUERYPARAM{keepNull,boolean,optional}
If the intention is to delete existing attributes with the patch
command, the URL query parameter *keepNull* can be used with a value
of *false*. This will modify the behavior of the patch command to
remove any attributes from the existing document that are contained
in the patch document with an attribute value of *null*.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{mergeObjects,boolean,optional}
Controls whether objects (not arrays) will be merged if present in
both the existing and the patch document. If set to *false*, the
value in the patch document will overwrite the existing document's
value. If set to *true*, objects will be merged. The default is
*true*.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{waitForSync,boolean,optional}
Wait until the new documents have been synced to disk.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{ignoreRevs,boolean,optional}
By default, or if this is set to *true*, the *_rev* attributes in
the given documents are ignored. If this is set to *false*, then
any *_rev* attribute given in a body document is taken as a
precondition. The document is only updated if the current revision
is the one specified.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{returnOld,boolean,optional}
Return additionally the complete previous revision of the changed
documents under the attribute *old* in the result.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{returnNew,boolean,optional}
Return additionally the complete new documents under the attribute *new*
in the result.

@RESTDESCRIPTION
Partially updates documents, the documents to update are specified
by the *_key* attributes in the body objects. The body of the
request must contain a JSON array of document updates with the
attributes to patch (the patch documents). All attributes from the
patch documents will be added to the existing documents if they do
not yet exist, and overwritten in the existing documents if they do
exist there.

The value of the `_key` attribute as well as attributes
used as sharding keys may not be changed.

Setting an attribute value to *null* in the patch documents will cause a
value of *null* to be saved for the attribute by default.

If *ignoreRevs* is *false* and there is a *_rev* attribute in a
document in the body and its value does not match the revision of
the corresponding document in the database, the precondition is
violated.

Cluster only: The patch document _may_ contain
values for the collection's pre-defined shard keys. Values for the shard keys
are treated as hints to improve performance. Should the shard keys
values be incorrect ArangoDB may answer with a *not found* error

Optionally, the query parameter *waitForSync* can be used to force
synchronization of the document replacement operation to disk even in case
that the *waitForSync* flag had been disabled for the entire collection.
Thus, the *waitForSync* query parameter can be used to force synchronization
of just specific operations. To use this, set the *waitForSync* parameter
to *true*. If the *waitForSync* parameter is not specified or set to
*false*, then the collection's default *waitForSync* behavior is
applied. The *waitForSync* query parameter cannot be used to disable
synchronization for collections that have a default *waitForSync* value
of *true*.

The body of the response contains a JSON array of the same length
as the input array with the information about the identifier and the
revision of the updated documents. In each entry, the attribute
*_id* contains the known *document-id* of each updated document,
*_key* contains the key which uniquely identifies a document in a
given collection, and the attribute *_rev* contains the new document
revision. In case of an error or violated precondition, an error
object with the attribute *error* set to *true* and the attribute
*errorCode* set to the error code is built.

If the query parameter *returnOld* is *true*, then, for each
generated document, the complete previous revision of the document
is returned under the *old* attribute in the result.

If the query parameter *returnNew* is *true*, then, for each
generated document, the complete new document is returned under
the *new* attribute in the result.

Note that if any precondition is violated or an error occurred with
some of the documents, the return code is still 201 or 202, but
the additional HTTP header *X-Arango-Error-Codes* is set, which
contains a map of the error codes that occurred together with their
multiplicities, as in: *1200:17,1205:10* which means that in 17
cases the error 1200 "revision conflict" and in 10 cases the error
1205 "illegal document handle" has happened.

@RESTRETURNCODES

@RESTRETURNCODE{201}
is returned if *waitForSync* was *true* and operations were processed.

@RESTRETURNCODE{202}
is returned if *waitForSync* was *false* and operations were processed.

@RESTRETURNCODE{400}
is returned if the body does not contain a valid JSON representation
of an array of documents. The response body contains
an error document in this case.

@RESTRETURNCODE{404}
is returned if the collection was not found.

@endDocuBlock

Commit message:

Support "silent" flag for multi-document operations
* The "silent" flag for document operations was previously not supported for
  multi-document operations. Specifying the "silent" parameter for these
  operations had no effect. Now, "silent" can be used for these operations too.
  When specified, multi-document operations will now return an empty array
  back if all operations succeeded. If some operations fail, only the failed
  operations are returned in the result. That means the result array can be
  shorter than the input array if "silent" is set, and the errors may not be
  mapped unambiguously to the input values.
  The "silent" option is turned off by default and should be used only in case
  when it is important to save the extra bytes that would otherwise be
  transferred for successful document operations. Because the error handling
  can be more difficult with the "silent" option enabled, it is recommended
  to only use it for multi-document operations when error handling is not
  important ("fire and forget") or when a very coarse-grained error handling
  is sufficient.

Documentation/DocuBlocks/Rest/Documents/patch_update_multiple_documents.md, after:


@startDocuBlock patch_update_document_MULTI
@brief updates multiple documents

@RESTHEADER{PATCH /_api/document/{collection},Update documents,updateDocuments}

@RESTALLBODYPARAM{documents,json,required}
A JSON representation of an array of document updates as objects.

@RESTURLPARAMETERS

@RESTURLPARAM{collection,string,required}
Name of the *collection* in which the documents are to be updated.

@RESTQUERYPARAMETERS

@RESTQUERYPARAM{keepNull,boolean,optional}
If the intention is to delete existing attributes with the patch
command, the URL query parameter *keepNull* can be used with a value
of *false*. This will modify the behavior of the patch command to
remove any attributes from the existing document that are contained
in the patch document with an attribute value of *null*.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{mergeObjects,boolean,optional}
Controls whether objects (not arrays) will be merged if present in
both the existing and the patch document. If set to *false*, the
value in the patch document will overwrite the existing document's
value. If set to *true*, objects will be merged. The default is
*true*.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{waitForSync,boolean,optional}
Wait until the new documents have been synced to disk.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{ignoreRevs,boolean,optional}
By default, or if this is set to *true*, the *_rev* attributes in
the given documents are ignored. If this is set to *false*, then
any *_rev* attribute given in a body document is taken as a
precondition. The document is only updated if the current revision
is the one specified.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{returnOld,boolean,optional}
Return additionally the complete previous revision of the changed
documents under the attribute *old* in the result.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{returnNew,boolean,optional}
Return additionally the complete new documents under the attribute *new*
in the result.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{silent,boolean,optional}
If set to *true*, an empty array will be returned as the response in case
no errors occurred. No meta-data will be returned for the updated documents. 
This option can be used to save some network traffic. 
In case any of the update operations produces an error, the result array 
will contain only those errors. Only the errors will be returned in it, 
without any positional mapping to the original input documents. That means 
it is still visible _that_ errors have happened, but the errors cannot be
unambiguously mapped to the input documents.
The option is *false* by default.

@RESTDESCRIPTION
Partially updates documents, the documents to update are specified
by the *_key* attributes in the body objects. The body of the
request must contain a JSON array of document updates with the
attributes to patch (the patch documents). All attributes from the
patch documents will be added to the existing documents if they do
not yet exist, and overwritten in the existing documents if they do
exist there.

The value of the `_key` attribute as well as attributes
used as sharding keys may not be changed.

Setting an attribute value to *null* in the patch documents will cause a
value of *null* to be saved for the attribute by default.

If *ignoreRevs* is *false* and there is a *_rev* attribute in a
document in the body and its value does not match the revision of
the corresponding document in the database, the precondition is
violated.

Cluster only: The patch document _may_ contain
values for the collection's pre-defined shard keys. Values for the shard keys
are treated as hints to improve performance. Should the shard keys
values be incorrect ArangoDB may answer with a *not found* error

Optionally, the query parameter *waitForSync* can be used to force
synchronization of the document replacement operation to disk even in case
that the *waitForSync* flag had been disabled for the entire collection.
Thus, the *waitForSync* query parameter can be used to force synchronization
of just specific operations. To use this, set the *waitForSync* parameter
to *true*. If the *waitForSync* parameter is not specified or set to
*false*, then the collection's default *waitForSync* behavior is
applied. The *waitForSync* query parameter cannot be used to disable
synchronization for collections that have a default *waitForSync* value
of *true*.

If the *silent* option is not set, the body of the response is an array of
the same length as the input array, with the information about the identifier 
and the revision of the updated documents. In each entry, the attribute
*_id* contains the known *document-id* of each updated document,
*_key* contains the key which uniquely identifies a document in a
given collection, and the attribute *_rev* contains the new document
revision. In case of an error or violated precondition, an error
object with the attribute *error* set to *true* and the attribute
*errorCode* set to the error code is built.
If the *silent* option is set, the body of the response is an array that
will contain one entry per failed update operation. If no update operation
has failed, the result will be an empty array. If errors happened and
the *silent* option is set, it may not be possible to map the resulting
errors unambiguously to the input values, because the result array may
be shorter than the input array. Thus the *silent* option should only
be used under circumstances that do not require error checking or when
error checking can be very coarse-grained.

If the query parameter *returnOld* is *true*, then, for each
generated document, the complete previous revision of the document
is returned under the *old* attribute in the result.

If the query parameter *returnNew* is *true*, then, for each
generated document, the complete new document is returned under
the *new* attribute in the result.

Note that if any precondition is violated or an error occurred with
some of the documents, the return code is still 201 or 202, but
the additional HTTP header *X-Arango-Error-Codes* is set, which
contains a map of the error codes that occurred together with their
multiplicities, as in: *1200:17,1205:10* which means that in 17
cases the error 1200 "revision conflict" and in 10 cases the error
1205 "illegal document handle" has happened.

@RESTRETURNCODES

@RESTRETURNCODE{201}
is returned if *waitForSync* was *true* and operations were processed.

@RESTRETURNCODE{202}
is returned if *waitForSync* was *false* and operations were processed.

@RESTRETURNCODE{400}
is returned if the body does not contain a valid JSON representation
of an array of documents. The response body contains
an error document in this case.

@RESTRETURNCODE{404}
is returned if the collection was not found.

@endDocuBlock
