Documentation/DocuBlocks/Rest/Documents/post_create_multiple_document.md, before:

@startDocuBlock post_create_document_MULTI
@brief creates multiple documents

@RESTHEADER{POST /_api/document/{collection}#multiple,Create multiple documents,insertDocuments}

@RESTURLPARAMETERS

@RESTURLPARAM{collection,string,required}
Name of the *collection* in which the documents are to be created.

@RESTALLBODYPARAM{data,json,required}
An array of documents to create.

@RESTQUERYPARAMETERS

@RESTQUERYPARAM{collection,string,optional}
The name of the collection. This is only for backward compatibility.
In ArangoDB versions < 3.0, the URL path was */_api/document* and
this query parameter was required. This combination still works, but
the recommended way is to specify the collection in the URL path.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{waitForSync,boolean,optional}
Wait until document has been synced to disk.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{returnNew,boolean,optional}
Additionally return the complete new document under the attribute *new*
in the result.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{returnOld,boolean,optional}
Additionally return the complete old document under the attribute *old*
in the result. Only available if the overwrite option is used.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{silent,boolean,optional}
If set to *true*, an empty object will be returned as response. No meta-data
will be returned for the created document. This option can be used to
save some network traffic.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{overwrite,boolean,optional}
If set to *true*, the insert becomes a replace-insert. If a document with the
same *_key* already exists the new document is not rejected with unique
constraint violated but will replace the old document. Note that operations
with `overwrite` parameter require a `_key` attribute in the request payload,
therefore they can only be performed on collections sharded by `_key`.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{overwriteMode,string,optional}
This option supersedes *overwrite* and offers the following modes:
- `"ignore"`: if a document with the specified *_key* value exists already,
  nothing will be done and no write operation will be carried out. The
  insert operation will return success in this case. This mode does not
  support returning the old document version using `RETURN OLD`. When using
  `RETURN NEW`, *null* will be returned in case the document already existed.
- `"replace"`: if a document with the specified *_key* value exists already,
  it will be overwritten with the specified document value. This mode will
  also be used when no overwrite mode is specified but the *overwrite*
  flag is set to *true*.
- `"update"`: if a document with the specified *_key* value exists already,
  it will be patched (partially updated) with the specified document value.
  The overwrite mode can be further controlled via the *keepNull* and
  *mergeObjects* parameters.
- `"conflict"`: if a document with the specified *_key* value exists already,
  return a unique constraint violation error so that the insert operation
  fails. This is also the default behavior in case the overwrite mode is
  not set, and the *overwrite* flag is *false* or not set either.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{keepNull,boolean,optional}
If the intention is to delete existing attributes with the update-insert
command, the URL query parameter *keepNull* can be used with a value of
*false*. This will modify the behavior of the patch command to remove any
attributes from the existing document that are contained in the patch document
with an attribute value of *null*.
This option controls the update-insert behavior only.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{mergeObjects,boolean,optional}
Controls whether objects (not arrays) will be merged if present in both the
existing and the update-insert document. If set to *false*, the value in the
patch document will overwrite the existing document's value. If set to *true*,
objects will be merged. The default is *true*.
This option controls the update-insert behavior only.

@RESTDESCRIPTION
Creates new documents from the documents given in the body, unless there
is already a document with the *_key* given. If no *_key* is given, a new
unique *_key* is generated automatically.

The result body will contain a JSON array of the
same length as the input array, and each entry contains the result
of the operation for the corresponding input. In case of an error
the entry is a document with attributes *error* set to *true* and
errorCode set to the error code that has happened.

Possibly given *_id* and *_rev* attributes in the body are always ignored,
the URL part or the query parameter collection respectively counts.

If *silent* is not set to *true*, the body of the response contains an
array of JSON objects with the following attributes:

  - *_id* contains the document identifier of the newly created document
  - *_key* contains the document key
  - *_rev* contains the document revision

If the collection parameter *waitForSync* is *false*, then the call
returns as soon as the documents have been accepted. It will not wait
until the documents have been synced to disk.

Optionally, the query parameter *waitForSync* can be used to force
synchronization of the document creation operation to disk even in
case that the *waitForSync* flag had been disabled for the entire
collection. Thus, the *waitForSync* query parameter can be used to
force synchronization of just this specific operations. To use this,
set the *waitForSync* parameter to *true*. If the *waitForSync*
parameter is not specified or set to *false*, then the collection's
default *waitForSync* behavior is applied. The *waitForSync* query
parameter cannot be used to disable synchronization for collections
that have a default *waitForSync* value of *true*.

If the query parameter *returnNew* is *true*, then, for each
generated document, the complete new document is returned under
the *new* attribute in the result.

Should an error have occurred with some of the documents
the additional HTTP header *X-Arango-Error-Codes* is set, which
contains a map of the error codes that occurred together with their
multiplicities, as in: *1205:10,1210:17* which means that in 10
cases the error 1205 "illegal document handle" and in 17 cases the
error 1210 "unique constraint violated" has happened.

@RESTRETURNCODES

@RESTRETURNCODE{201}
is returned if *waitForSync* was *true* and operations were processed.

@RESTRETURNCODE{202}
is returned if *waitForSync* was *false* and operations were processed.

@RESTRETURNCODE{400}
is returned if the body does not contain a valid JSON representation
of an array of documents. The response body contains
an error document in this case.

@RESTRETURNCODE{404}
is returned if the collection specified by *collection* is unknown.
The response body contains an error document in this case.

@EXAMPLES

Insert multiple documents:

@EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN{RestDocumentHandlerPostMulti1}
    var cn = "products";
    db._drop(cn);
    db._create(cn);

    var url = "/_api/document/" + cn;
    var body = '[{"Hello":"Earth"}, {"Hello":"Venus"}, {"Hello":"Mars"}]';

    var response = logCurlRequest('POST', url, body);

    assert(response.code === 202);

    logJsonResponse(response);
    db._drop(cn);
@END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN

Use of returnNew:

@EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN{RestDocumentHandlerPostMulti2}
    var cn = "products";
    db._drop(cn);
    db._create(cn);

    var url = "/_api/document/" + cn + "?returnNew=true";
    var body = '[{"Hello":"Earth"}, {"Hello":"Venus"}, {"Hello":"Mars"}]';

    var response = logCurlRequest('POST', url, body);

    assert(response.code === 202);

    logJsonResponse(response);
    db._drop(cn);
@END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN

Partially illegal documents:

@EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN{RestDocumentHandlerPostBadJsonMulti}
    var cn = "products";
    db._drop(cn);
    db._create(cn);

    var url = "/_api/document/" + cn;
    var body = '[{ "_key": 111 }, {"_key":"abc"}]';

    var response = logCurlRequest('POST', url, body);

    assert(response.code === 202);

    logJsonResponse(response);
    db._drop(cn);
@END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN

@endDocuBlock

Commit message:

Support "silent" flag for multi-document operations
* The "silent" flag for document operations was previously not supported for
  multi-document operations. Specifying the "silent" parameter for these
  operations had no effect. Now, "silent" can be used for these operations too.
  When specified, multi-document operations will now return an empty array
  back if all operations succeeded. If some operations fail, only the failed
  operations are returned in the result. That means the result array can be
  shorter than the input array if "silent" is set, and the errors may not be
  mapped unambiguously to the input values.
  The "silent" option is turned off by default and should be used only in case
  when it is important to save the extra bytes that would otherwise be
  transferred for successful document operations. Because the error handling
  can be more difficult with the "silent" option enabled, it is recommended
  to only use it for multi-document operations when error handling is not
  important ("fire and forget") or when a very coarse-grained error handling
  is sufficient.

Documentation/DocuBlocks/Rest/Documents/post_create_multiple_document.md, after:

@startDocuBlock post_create_document_MULTI
@brief creates multiple documents

@RESTHEADER{POST /_api/document/{collection}#multiple,Create multiple documents,insertDocuments}

@RESTURLPARAMETERS

@RESTURLPARAM{collection,string,required}
Name of the *collection* in which the documents are to be created.

@RESTALLBODYPARAM{data,json,required}
An array of documents to create.

@RESTQUERYPARAMETERS

@RESTQUERYPARAM{collection,string,optional}
The name of the collection. This is only for backward compatibility.
In ArangoDB versions < 3.0, the URL path was */_api/document* and
this query parameter was required. This combination still works, but
the recommended way is to specify the collection in the URL path.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{waitForSync,boolean,optional}
Wait until document has been synced to disk.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{returnNew,boolean,optional}
Additionally return the complete new document under the attribute *new*
in the result.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{returnOld,boolean,optional}
Additionally return the complete old document under the attribute *old*
in the result. Only available if the *overwrite* or *overwriteMode* options
are used.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{silent,boolean,optional}
If set to *true*, an empty array will be returned as the response in case
no errors occurred. No meta-data will be returned for the inserted documents. 
This option can be used to save some network traffic. 
In case any of the insert operations produces an error, the result array 
will contain only those errors. Only the errors will be returned in it, 
without any positional mapping to the original input documents. That means 
it is still visible _that_ errors have happened, but the errors cannot be
unambiguously mapped to the input documents.
The option is *false* by default.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{overwrite,boolean,optional}
If set to *true*, the insert becomes a replace-insert. If a document with the
same *_key* already exists the new document is not rejected with unique
constraint violated but will replace the old document. Note that operations
with `overwrite` parameter require a `_key` attribute in the request payload,
therefore they can only be performed on collections sharded by `_key`.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{overwriteMode,string,optional}
This option supersedes *overwrite* and offers the following modes:
- `"ignore"`: if a document with the specified *_key* value exists already,
  nothing will be done and no write operation will be carried out. The
  insert operation will return success in this case. This mode does not
  support returning the old document version using `RETURN OLD`. When using
  `RETURN NEW`, *null* will be returned in case the document already existed.
- `"replace"`: if a document with the specified *_key* value exists already,
  it will be overwritten with the specified document value. This mode will
  also be used when no overwrite mode is specified but the *overwrite*
  flag is set to *true*.
- `"update"`: if a document with the specified *_key* value exists already,
  it will be patched (partially updated) with the specified document value.
  The overwrite mode can be further controlled via the *keepNull* and
  *mergeObjects* parameters.
- `"conflict"`: if a document with the specified *_key* value exists already,
  return a unique constraint violation error so that the insert operation
  fails. This is also the default behavior in case the overwrite mode is
  not set, and the *overwrite* flag is *false* or not set either.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{keepNull,boolean,optional}
If the intention is to delete existing attributes with the update-insert
command, the URL query parameter *keepNull* can be used with a value of
*false*. This will modify the behavior of the patch command to remove any
attributes from the existing document that are contained in the patch document
with an attribute value of *null*.
This option controls the insert-update behavior only.

@RESTQUERYPARAM{mergeObjects,boolean,optional}
Controls whether objects (not arrays) will be merged if present in both the
existing and the update-insert document. If set to *false*, the value in the
patch document will overwrite the existing document's value. If set to *true*,
objects will be merged. The default is *true*.
This option controls the insert-update behavior only.

@RESTDESCRIPTION
Creates new documents from the documents given in the body, unless there
is already a document with the *_key* given. If no *_key* is given, a new
unique *_key* is generated for each document automatically.

Possibly given *_id* and *_rev* attributes in the input request body are 
always ignored, the URL part or the query parameter collection respectively counts.

If the *silent* option is not set, the result body will contain an array of the
same length as the input array, and each entry contains the result
of the operation for the corresponding input. In case of an error
the entry is a document with attributes *error* set to *true* and
errorCode set to the error code that has happened.

If *silent* is not set to *true*, the body of the response contains an
array of JSON objects with the following attributes:

  - *_id* contains the document identifier of the newly created document
  - *_key* contains the document key
  - *_rev* contains the document revision

If the *silent* option is set, the body of the response is an array that
will contain one entry per failed insert operation. If no insert operation
has failed, the result will be an empty array. If errors happened and
the *silent* option is set, it may not be possible to map the resulting
errors unambiguously to the input values, because the result array may
be shorter than the input array. Thus the *silent* option should only
be used under circumstances that do not require error checking or when
error checking can be very coarse-grained.

If the collection parameter *waitForSync* is *false*, then the call
returns as soon as the documents have been accepted. It will not wait
until the documents have been synced to disk.

Optionally, the query parameter *waitForSync* can be used to force
synchronization of the document creation operation to disk even in
case that the *waitForSync* flag had been disabled for the entire
collection. Thus, the *waitForSync* query parameter can be used to
force synchronization of just this specific operations. To use this,
set the *waitForSync* parameter to *true*. If the *waitForSync*
parameter is not specified or set to *false*, then the collection's
default *waitForSync* behavior is applied. The *waitForSync* query
parameter cannot be used to disable synchronization for collections
that have a default *waitForSync* value of *true*.

If the query parameter *returnNew* is *true*, then, for each
generated document, the complete new document is returned under
the *new* attribute in the result.

Should an error have occurred with some of the documents
the additional HTTP header *X-Arango-Error-Codes* is set, which
contains a map of the error codes that occurred together with their
multiplicities, as in: *1205:10,1210:17* which means that in 10
cases the error 1205 "illegal document handle" and in 17 cases the
error 1210 "unique constraint violated" has happened.

@RESTRETURNCODES

@RESTRETURNCODE{201}
is returned if *waitForSync* was *true* and operations were processed.

@RESTRETURNCODE{202}
is returned if *waitForSync* was *false* and operations were processed.

@RESTRETURNCODE{400}
is returned if the body does not contain a valid JSON representation
of an array of documents. The response body contains
an error document in this case.

@RESTRETURNCODE{404}
is returned if the collection specified by *collection* is unknown.
The response body contains an error document in this case.

@EXAMPLES

Insert multiple documents:

@EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN{RestDocumentHandlerPostMulti1}
    var cn = "products";
    db._drop(cn);
    db._create(cn);

    var url = "/_api/document/" + cn;
    var body = '[{"Hello":"Earth"}, {"Hello":"Venus"}, {"Hello":"Mars"}]';

    var response = logCurlRequest('POST', url, body);

    assert(response.code === 202);

    logJsonResponse(response);
    db._drop(cn);
@END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN

Use of returnNew:

@EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN{RestDocumentHandlerPostMulti2}
    var cn = "products";
    db._drop(cn);
    db._create(cn);

    var url = "/_api/document/" + cn + "?returnNew=true";
    var body = '[{"Hello":"Earth"}, {"Hello":"Venus"}, {"Hello":"Mars"}]';

    var response = logCurlRequest('POST', url, body);

    assert(response.code === 202);

    logJsonResponse(response);
    db._drop(cn);
@END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN

Partially illegal documents:

@EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN{RestDocumentHandlerPostBadJsonMulti}
    var cn = "products";
    db._drop(cn);
    db._create(cn);

    var url = "/_api/document/" + cn;
    var body = '[{ "_key": 111 }, {"_key":"abc"}]';

    var response = logCurlRequest('POST', url, body);

    assert(response.code === 202);

    logJsonResponse(response);
    db._drop(cn);
@END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_RUN

@endDocuBlock
